♪ [music] ♪
So far with our application, when we
refresh the page, all of our data is gone,
and there's no persisting of actual data,
and for that to actually work we need
some sort of backend service, and what
we're going to be using in this video is
something called Firebase. Firebase is a
product from Google and it's really,
really nice, and probably the coolest part
about is that it uses something called
HTML5 WebSockets meaning that you can
sync all of your data from your
application up to Firebase and vice versa.
When someone changes it in Firebase,
it will be synced to our application, so
what Firebase allows us to do is not only
have a backend database but also make that
real-time, so that regardless of who's got
the application open or how
many people are editing it at once,
that data will always be
synced to everyone's' computer.
So I'm going to show you an example right
here, and I've got a blank Firebase
database right here, and the way you can
think about Firebase as it's one big
object. Now that works really, really well
with React, because the state is one big
object, and what's really cool is that we
can sync our state with Firebase,
and then any time any of them changes,
they'll all automatically sync together.
So I'm going to go to
old-fashioned-grumpy-teeth here and click
Visit Store. And all of sudden, you see
on my right-hand side
I have created that store and we've got
owner. This is some authentication stuff
that we're going to be doing in later
videos. However, when I load some sample
fishes here, oh, look, it
automatically...those fishes pop up,
and there's all of my fishes. There's fish
one and if I can add them to my order,
no problem. However, if I were to
change one of these to maybe,
like, Atlantic. Look it. It's happening in
real-time, both in my application but also
it's being synced up to Firebase and that
also works the other way around.
I changed this back to Pacific. Hit Enter.
See how it changed it in Firebase
and it's going to go open here. So if I
were to open up, like,
Safari here. I can see all the data about
it. I'm not able to log in,
because I'm not the owner of this one, and
we'll talk about that in our actual
authentication application. But if I were
then to change one of these,
again, back to Atlantic...see, changed
right there. Sorry, it's a little bit hard
to see. I'm going to make it bigger. That
one changed. That one changed.
It's real-time regardless of
who's got this specific store
open at any given moment.
Great. Now what I need you to do is to
sign up for a Firebase account.
Go to firebase.com and sign up and you'll
go to your Firebase dashboard
so Firebase recently just changed
everything up on us. So if you have,
like, a previous one from the last version
of Sartorial or any other Firebase
that maybe you ever worked with. Make sure
that you create a new project using the
new Firebase, not the old legacy one that
we don't want. So you want to go ahead
and create a new project here, and we're
going to call that Catch Of The Day,
and then put your name in it because
there's going to be thousands of you
creating this and we can't all have the
same name. Create the project there.
Now first thing we need to do is go
to the database here
and this is going to be our empty
database. Now we want to click on the
rules right here, and we're going to learn
all about how authentication works
and by default, Firebase is now locked
down, meaning that no one can edit the
data. However for learning, it's a little
bit cumbersome, because who likes to build
their authentication before they
actually learn how to use the thing.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to open it up, and it's obviously just
going to be you working on this database,
and then, in the authentication video,
we're going to come back here and make
sure that we lock it down so that only the
person who owns that specific
store will be able to edit it.
So we've got these rules called ".read"
and ".write" and right here it's saying
everybody can't, so we are just going to
change that to true, and we are going to
say ".write" to also be true and then
give that a save. And it's going to tell
us your security rules are defined as
public, anyone...that's no problem there.
Again, we're going to
come back and grab it.
Now we need to head back to our code
here, and we need to open up our app
component and take a little look at our
state here. So we've got our state,
and order isn't going to be synced to
Firebase. We're actually going to sync
that with local storage in a future
video, but the fishes... Any change that
happens to any of our fish state, that
needs to be synced with Firebase,
and we're going to be using a package
called Rebase to do that.
In order to connect to Rebase, we need to
make a new file and I'm not going to put
that in a components folder because it's
not a component. I'm going to go one level
higher in source and I'm going to
call it base.js, and in there,
we're going to import the Rebase package
from re-base, and we are going to create
what's called a base and that's just a
connection to our Firebase database.
So we are saying const base equals
Rebase.createClass and we need to
pass it a couple of things. We need an
API key, we need the domain that we're
actually connecting to, as well as the
database you were [inaudible].
So what I want you to do is go back to
your Firebase console,
click on the name of your database
in the top, left-hand corner,
just make sure you're on this page where
it says iOS. It might change by the time
you're seeing this but we have this, "Add
Firebase to your web app." Click that
and it's going to pop open some javascript
config here. Now we don't need all of
this. We just need the first three
things, apiKey, authDomain
and databaseURL. You can also set store
files with that as well if you're
interested in that but we're not
going to be doing that here.
And you just paste that on in here and
then we'll export that base URL so that we
can access this database connection
from any one of our files.
Anytime we need to work with Firebase, we
can just import this base,
and it's going to be already connected
to Firebase and doing all the
API keys behind the scenes.
By the way, if you're wondering, like, is
that safe to put a API key on the client,
like, couldn't anyone see that? And that's
where the authentication rules on Firebase
are going to come in handy so totally
fine if you're wondering about that.
Then we head back over to our app.js and
we want to import the base.
So we say import base from base.
That's our base.js file and now
we need to talk a little bit about
something called the React lifecycle
hooks. React has this component,
lifecycle, where it gives us a number of
sort of entry points into a component. So
when a component is being mounted or
when a component is being rendered onto
the page, there's different entry points
where we can hook into and do various
things like do an AJAX request or check
for any number of items or, in our case,
we're going to connect to rebate.
We're going to be using one called
componentWillMount, and what that does is
it allows us to hook into that, like,
split-second right before our component is
rendered, our app component is rendered to
the screen, and it's going to allow us to
sync our component state with our actual
Firebase state. So we've got
componentWillMount, componentDidMount,
componentWillReceiveProps,
shouldComponentUpdate,
componentWillupdate, componentDidUpdate
and, like, anytime you feel like, hmm, I
need to do, like, a quick check or I need
to go and fetch something on one of these
hooks, go to this component lifecycle and
look for the one that you want. The one
that we want is called componentWillMount
and I'm going to do that right
underneath our constructor here.
I'll say componentWillMount. Now we
didn't make that up. That is a special one
that is made by React. So we have render,
which we know is a special one,
but then we've just been making up, like,
addFish and loadSamples.
Now componentWillMount is one that
specifically comes from React
and we can take a look at it right here.
Invoked once, both on the client and the
server. So that's important to know if
you're doing server-side rendering.
Immediately, before the initial rendering
occurs, you call setState within this
method on render. Render will see the
updated state and will be executed only
once despite the state change. So that's
really interesting because if you wanted
to change state before it got rendered to
the page rather than rendering it,
changing state, and then
rendering a second time, that could
really save you in performance.
So what we want to do is to say this.ref
equals base.syncState,
and the first thing that it takes is a
string that points to the actual piece of
your Firebase that you'd like to sync
with, because if we take a look at my
Firebase right here...and this is the one
that I've done. The top level is,
like, the entire database and we don't
want to sync this one store.
Remember that, like, we're just viewing
this one, panicky-lazy-fungi store,
and we don't want to sync the entire
thing. So we have to tell it don't sync
the entire catch-of-the-day,
but instead, sync
catch-of-the-day/panicky-lazy-fungi/fishes
so let me do that here.
If we do backticks it would be...
let's grab the URL
here panicky-lazy-fungi/fishes, right? But
I can't hard-code panicky-lazy-fungi
because that's going
to be different depending on
which of the stores I'm on, right?
So how do we get that little piece of the
URL here, panicky-lazy-fungi or
drab-drab-tomatoes? How do I access that
actual piece? Well, that's done via props.
If we go and inspect our app
component here, you'll see that...look,
oh, this.props.params... And we never did
anything to do that but our friend React
Router, which is the parent to app, said,
"Oh, by the way, you probably will need
this storeId variable." Now remember
that's what we did in our index.js,
storeId was defined right here. You
probably will need that so we can simply
just use this.props.params.storeid and
that's it. I have access to the actual
piece and then we do /fishes because if we
look at this right here, we're also going
to do authentication which has owner, and
we may have other metadata associated with
this store. The fishes is just one piece
of that actual store so that's where we're
going to be syncing it, and then we also
need to pass in an object which has a
context, which is this, and the state
that we actually want to sync.
In our case, it's going to be called
fishes. Because, like, we also have an
OrderState which we could sync as well,
but in our case, we only want to do fishes
so that is componentWillMount, and then
however what happens if we switch from
one store to another store? We need to
stop syncing as soon as we go to another
store or we go to another page.
Otherwise, you're going to be,
like, racking up all these listeners
behind the scenes, and it could be
catastrophic. So we want to say
componentWillUnmount, and we simply say
base, which is our Firebase,
.removeBinding then we pass it this.ref,
and that's why we put the syncState in
here, that's Y-N-C. We put the syncState
in the ref so that we could reference
it later and remove that.
So let's give that a save and see where
we're at. I'm going to go back to my
Firebase console here. Open up my Catch Of
The Day. Go to my database and
then I'm going to go to our application
that we've got here, drab-drab-tomatoes
and I'm going to load in some sample
fishes, add some to my order.
Looks to be working. Now if I go to my
Firebase console, do we see any data?
Yep, there we go, just popped up.
Opened it up, there's my fishes,
fish one, fish two. Now the cool thing
about that is when I then refresh this
page, all of that data is then immediately
reinstated for me and I can make changes
to it, either on the Firebase side or on
my state side. Here, let's go in here and
change Pacific Halibut to Atlantic.
Enter. Go back to our app.
It's already being updated.
If I refresh once more,
it's already updated immediately.
So just with...I don't know, maybe we
wrote 15, 20 lines of code in this video.
It's very simple to be able to sync all of
your state, and now you don't have to
worry about, okay, I changed my state, I
need to make sure that I updated that in
the database. And these things get out of
sync really easily where now,
you as a developer, you only care about
your state and everything else,
your HTML, as well as your
Firebase, it's going to be listening
to that and they're going
to update themselves.